Q 2.2 What are the five major activities of an operating system with regard to process management? 
Answer:
1. Creation and deletion of user and system processes
2. Scheduling processes
3. Provision of mechanisms for process synchronization
4. Process communication
5. Deadlock handling for processes

Q 2.5 What is the purpose of the command interpreter? Why is it usually separate from the kernel? 
Answer:
Command interpreter is a way to interface with the operating system. The purpose of command interpreter is to execute user-specified commands. It is usually not part of the kernel because changes to command interpreter are independent from changes to kernel. Kernel is supposed to contain only the core logic of the OS and not anything that provides higher level functionality to user.

Q 2.12 The services and functions provided by an operating system can be divided into two main categories. Briefly describe the two categories and discuss how they differ. 
Answer:
1. One category of services and functions provided by operating system is to enforce protection between different processors which are running simultaneously. OS guarantees that each process is only able to access the memory addresses / files owned by it.

2. Second category of services provided by an operating system is to provide new / higher-level functionality that is not supported directly by the hardware. Virtual memory and file systems are two such examples of two such functionalities.

Q 2.23 What is the main advantage for an operating-system designer of using a virtual-machine architecture? What is the main advantage for a user? 
Answer:
1. Advantage for operating-system designer:
It is easy to provide complete isolation to user by using virtual machine architecture because each user has dedicated access to its virtual machine. This also makes it easier to debug any complex issues in user programs caused by how the program interacts with the system.

2. Advantage for operating-system user:
Similarly, in the virtual machine architecture, user does not have to worry about any interference from other users since the user has dedicated access to its virtual machine. Also, since each virtual machine can run any OS, one computer can be used to host and run multiple operating systems concurrently. This could be useful for advance users like operating system researchers.